---
layout: default
title: Release 2.8.0
---

JHipster release 2.8.0
==================

*JHipster gives you Spring Boot + AngularJS working together in one handy Yeoman generator.*

What's new
----------

This is a bug-fixing release.

This is a 2.8.0 version, and not 2.7.1, to mark that we have made one big change in JHipster: we are changing the way we name our database tables!

This should normally not have any consequences to existing applications (thanks to JPA that adds a mapping layer on top of the database!), but it can be surprising to existing users.

This follows the discussion from [#1278](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/1278), as:

- Previously, all tables in JHipster where prefixed with 'T\_'. This was only because [Julien Dubois](https://twitter.com/juliendubois) is very old, and learned programming using the Hungarian notation. 20 years ago, without any syntax highlighting, he could easily know if he was using a table (prefixed by 'T\_') or a view (prefixed by 'V\_'). Of course using this notation is totally non-hipster, so we decided to remove it.
- We now check for reserved keywords when an entity is being generated: you can't use Java, MySQL, PostgreSQL or Cassandra reserved keywords. We do not check MongoDB reserved keywords yet, because we didn't find a good list of keywords, but that should of course be added later.
- As a result of the two choices above, we had a new issue: as PostgreSQL uses the "user" keyword internally, we could not use a 'user' table to store our 'User' entity.
- So our new tables names are as follows:
    - All tables generated by default by JHipster (including the "User" table), are prefixed by 'JHI\_'. So the 'User' table is in fact called 'JHI_USER'.
    - All tables generated using the entity sub-generator have no prefix at all, but cannot contain a reserved keyword in the technologies you are using (if you don't use Cassandra, you can use a Cassandra reserved keyword).

If those choices do not suit you, don't hesitate to send us comments, and remember that all this can be easily changed in your JPA mapping!

And as always, __[you can check all the closed tickets here](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues?q=milestone%3A2.8.0+is%3Aclosed)__.

How to upgrade
------------

Update your version of JHipster with:

```
npm update -g generator-jhipster
```

And then you can update your project when you run again

```
yo jhipster
```

You can also update your entities by running again the entity sub-generator, for example if your entity is named _Foo_

```
yo jhipster:entity Foo
```

Help and bugs
--------------

If you find any issue with this release, don't hesitate to:

- Contact [@java_hipster](https://twitter.com/java_hipster) on Twitter
- Add a bug on our [bug tracker](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues?state=open)
- Post a question on [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/tags/jhipster/info)
