---
layout: default
title: Updating an application
permalink: /Updating-an-app/
sitemap:
    priority: 0.7
    lastmod: 2014-06-02T00:00:00-00:00
---

# <i class="fa fa-refresh"></i> Updating an application

You can use the JHipster upgrade sub generator for the following scenarios.

When there is a new version of JHipster released, you might want to upgrade an application generated using an older JHipster version.
You might also want to upgrade an application using a newer version JHipster when there is an important bug fix or security update.
You might also just want to reset your codebase to a state as generated by JHipster.

In order to use the sub generator `cd` into the applications root directory:

`cd myapplication/`

To upgrade your application, type:

`yo jhipster:upgrade`

If you want to reset your code base using the current installed JHipster version, type:

`yo jhipster:upgrade --force`

For this sub generator to work you would need to have `git` installed from [http://git-scm.com](http://git-scm.com/).

Below are the steps processed by JHipster upgrade sub generator.

1. It will check if there is a new version of JHipster available (Not applicable if you are using `--force`).
2. It will check If your application is already initialized as a `git` repository, else JHipster will initialize one for you and commit the current codebase to master branch.
3. It will check to ensure that there are no un committed local changes in your repository. Process will exit if there are un committed changes found.
4. It will create and checkout a new branch called `jhipster_upgrade`.
5. It will upgrade JHipster to the latest available version globally.
6. It will clean the current project directory.
7. It will re generate the application using `yo jhipster --force --with-entities` command.
8. It will commit the generated code to the `jhipster_upgrade` branch.
9. Now the `jhipster_upgrade` branch is merged back to the original branch from where you started the `yo jhipster:upgrade` command.
10. Now you just need to proceed with resolving merge conflicts if any.

And voila! your application is now upgraded with the latest version of JHipster.
