---
layout: default
title: Updating an application
permalink: /upgrading-an-application/
sitemap:
    priority: 0.7
    lastmod: 2014-06-02T00:00:00-00:00
---

# <i class="fa fa-refresh"></i> Upgrading an application

When a new version of JHipster is released, the JHipster upgrade sub-generator is available to help upgrading an existing application to this new version.

This is helpful to:

- Have the latest JHipster features in an existing application
- Get the changes when there is an important bug fix or security update
- Reset the codebase to a state as generated by JHipster

In order to use the sub-generator, go into the application's root directory:

`cd myapplication/`

To upgrade your application, type:

`yo jhipster:upgrade`

If you want to reset your codebase using the current installed JHipster version, type:

`yo jhipster:upgrade --force`

For this sub-generator to work you need to have `git` installed from [http://git-scm.com](http://git-scm.com/).

Below are the steps processed by the JHipster upgrade sub-generator:

1. Check if there is a new version of JHipster available (not applicable if you are using `--force`).
2. Check If the application is already initialized as a `git` repository, or else JHipster will initialize one for you and commit the current codebase to the master branch.
3. Check to ensure that there are no un-committed local changes in the repository. The process will exit if there are un-committed changes found.
4. Create and checkout a new branch called `jhipster_upgrade`.
5. Upgrade JHipster to the latest available version globally.
6. Clean the current project directory.
7. Re-generate the application using the `yo jhipster --force --with-entities` command.
8. Commit the generated code to the `jhipster_upgrade` branch.
9. Merge the `jhipster_upgrade` branch back to the original branch from where the `yo jhipster:upgrade` command was launched.
10. Now you just need to proceed with resolving merge conflicts if there are any.

Congratulations, your application is now upgraded with the latest version of JHipster!
